# `redact-haskell` Design Log

Author
: Travis Cardwell

Date
: 2020-11-28

## History

I generally use long, random passwords that are quite difficult to type, much
less commit to memory.  I organize such passwords in Markdown files, along
with login details and other such information.  These Markdown files are
stored in an encrypted "vault," along with certificates, keys, and other such
secrets.  Instructions and passwords for accessing the vault from a backup or
hard drive can be stored in a physical vault, to help family or coworkers in
the event of being "hit by a bus."

Many years ago, I created a `redact` script to hide secrets when displaying
them on the terminal, by using the same color for the foreground and
background so that they were not visible on the screen.  I could use `grep` to
select a specific password, pipe it through `redact` to hide it, and select
the password to copy it for use.  When selecting the hidden text, the terminal
that I used swapped the foreground and background colors, so the password
remained hidden.

Over a decade later, I decided to implement the program in Haskell because I
plan on experimenting with using GitHub Actions to build Windows and macOS
executables, and this little program might be a good one to experiment with.

Upon testing my Haskell implementation, however, I was surprised to discover
that it does not work well with the terminal emulators that I currently use
(`rxvt-unicode` and Alacritty)!  Secrets are hidden when displayed, but the
terminal uses fixed ("highlight") colors when the hidden text is selected,
making it visible.  These highlight colors may be specified in the X resources
configuration with the `highlightColor` and `highlightTextColor` settings,
which default to the `background` and `foreground` colors respectively.  It is
possible to hide selected text by setting both of these options to the same
color, but this is not a viable solution since doing so hides all selections.

Testing on the Windows 10 terminal, I found that hidden text remains hidden
when selected.  Testing on the macOS terminal, I found that hidden text is
visible when selected, similar to the behavior in `rxvt-unicode`.

I considered aborting this project since it does not work with terminals that
use X resources, but I have decided that it is still worth continuing.  In any
case, it will allow me to experiment with using GitHub Actions to build
Windows and macOS executables.
